Appendix 1 - Interview questions:
1. What’s your gender? Feel free to skip this question if you prefer not to answer.
2. Can you explain your exercise routine, including how frequently you exercise and what
motivates you to stay active?
3. Do you have any fitness objectives for yourself and what inspires these objectives?
4. Have you faced any barriers or challenges in pursuing your fitness objectives, could you
share those experiences and how you have addressed them?
a. In what ways do you think a fitness app could further support you in overcoming
such challenges?
5. Are you interested in receiving dietary guidance through a fitness app?
a. What kind of diet plan best suits you and why do you find it effective?
6. Would you use a fitness tracking app to track your daily calories, why?
7. What features do you believe are essential in a fitness tracking app, and how would
these enhance your fitness experience?
8. Have you ever stopped using a fitness tracker? And could you explain what led to this
decision?
9. What incentives would motivate you to use a fitness tracking app more consistently?
10. Would you use a fitness tracking app to track the quality of your sleep?
a. Could you elaborate on your typical sleep schedule and the amount of sleep you
aim for?

Appendix 2 - Interview 1 (conducted by Will)
1. Male
2. I usually workout 4-5 times a week in the gym and I like to be active by walking almost
every day. My exercise routine varies based on my mood and aim for the week.
3. My fitness objective is to get strong and not get fat.
4. I don’t have any disabilities nor have I faced any major difficulties in pursuing my fitness
objectives other than staying consistent, which I find quite hard.
5. At the moment I do not need assistance with eating plans but I do need help in working
out my ideal calorie intake as well as meal recommendations.
6. I would use a fitness app to track my calories, as long as it's quick and easy.
7. Features: planning/tracking workout. tracking sleep. tracking weight. Maybe tracking
calories in food
8. Haven’t really ever used a fitness app.
9. I’m not sure what would motivate me to use one - maybe if my progress was very
bad/inconsistent or the app had a specific feature that I’d find beneficial such as it gives
me workout recommendations based on my fitness goals.
10. Yes I would use it to track the quality of my sleep. I usually sleep at 1:30am everyday
and get around 7.5 hours of sleep.
Appendix 3 - Interview 2 (conducted by Will)
1. Male
2. I have never worked out.
3. Currently I do not have any fitness goals, I am happy with where my body and health is
at without actively having to workout.
4. I do not have any disabilities nor have I faced any difficulties in pursuing my fitness
objectives.
5. I wouldn't mind, as long as it is something that isn’t strict, and still allows me to have
some of my favourite foods without worrying about macros etc...
7. Fitness tracking app should have a rest and recovery tracking feature. The app should
recognise the importance of rest days and offer insights into recovery metrics like sleep
quality and muscle recovery. This approach will ensure I'm not overtraining and allow my
body to recover properly, enhancing both my performance and health. The app should
also have built in guides and step by step explanations on workouts and gym equipment
usage.
8. Nope, don’t really use a fitness tracking app actively.
9. If it was actually useful and not made for profit.
10. I would use it if it was effective in tracking sleep quality - and provided more in depth
information about my sleep patterns and gave me advice based on it. I get roughly 8
hours of sleep and sleep around 2am everyday.

Appendix 4 - Interview 3 (conducted by Will)
1. Male
2. Roughly work out around 3 times a week. I do it to keep myself active, I don't really have
a specific workout routine, I just do whatever I'm in the mood for.
3. Just to socialise and have fun.
4. I experienced a knee injury last year, which was a major setback. I had to pause my
exercise routine, which was disheartening. Working with a physiotherapist, I learned the
importance of proper form and gradually incorporated low-impact exercises like
swimming and cycling into my routine. It taught me the value of listening to my body and
the importance of recovery.
5. Yes, I think a high protein diet would best suit me as I'd like to grow some muscle.
6. Maybe, it depends on my fitness goals in the future.
7. Features I think are essential in a fitness tracking app is the ability to share
achievements and participate in challenges with friends or the app community is really
motivating. It adds a little fun and competitive element to exercise, encouraging me to
push harder. Plus, it's a great way to stay connected with friends and family who share
similar fitness goals.
8. No, never really actively used one to begin with.
9. Incentives such as daily login bonus, virtual shop to buy items from with currencies that
we have earned from our fitness workouts.
10. If it’s accurate, yes, I think that would make me want to use the fitness tracking app more
as I'd like to see my sleep patterns. I usually sleep around 11pm and get up to 8 hours of
sleep everyday so I'd like to say my sleep pattern is pretty good for now, but I'd like to
see it over time.

Appendix 5 - Interview 1 (conducted by Kenny)
1. Male
2. I workout around six times a week, I mainly focus on cardio and boxing.
3. Become stronger, lose weight and become a better boxer.
4. No disabilities or difficulties faced so far.
5. Tracking the amount of calories and nutritions for the food I eat. Including if I have hit my
daily calorie and nutrition intake. Keto diet for losing weight, high protein meal including
chicken, fish and vegetables, low calories
6. Yes, but only if it’s accurate and easy to use.
7. Showing the amount of calories burnt during exercise, also track the progress made
during sessions. For example, tracking the amount of miles ran or one rep max to
compare past results to measure progress.
8. Never used a fitness tracking app.
9. I would use a fitness app more often, if it is easy to use, and doesn't require much effort
to operate.
10. Probably not. I usually get around 8 hours of sleep a day and sleep at different times.

Appendix 6 - Interview 2 (conducted by Kenny)
1. Female
2. I go twice a week and focus on mainly weightlifting/strength training.
3. My main fitness objective is to become stronger and look more fit and muscular. As it’s
the type of look I aspire to have.
4. There are days when I feel completely unmotivated to work out, especially after a long
day. What has helped me overcome this is setting small, achievable goals and reminding
myself why I started. I also joined a fitness community online, which keeps me
accountable and provides a support system that motivates me to stay on track.
5. Not at the moment.
6. No, I think that's a waste of time and energy.
7. For me, it would be the ability to customise workouts, as I think that is a crucial feature
that should be integrated in fitness tracking apps. Everyone's fitness level and goals are
different, so an app that allows me to create or modify workouts to my specific needs
would be incredibly useful. It would make the app feel more personal and ensure I can
stick to my fitness plan without feeling bored or overwhelmed.
8. Never used a fitness app to begin with.
9. If it was free of charge and had no ads and also if it gave monetary rewards for reaching
milestones.
10. Yes, I sleep around 11pm everyday and sleep for 7 hours. That's what works best for
me.

Appendix 7 - Interview 3 (conducted by Kenny)
1. Female
2. Around four times a week.
3. Yes, so far my main objective is to build upper body strength.
4. I am currently suffering with chronic fatigue symptom, I look at previous results and
assess times of the year set goals have been completed
5. Provide ideas on quick healthy easy meals, meals that are cooked using healthy oil fat
and are high protein.
6. No, I don't want to track my calories as I like to eat intuitively.
7. Should provide reflection on progress and an easy to use interface. The app should
have goal-setting features and reminders. Being able to set specific, measurable goals
and receive reminders and encouragement to achieve them would make me want to use
the app more consistently. I want an app that will be a personal coach for me that will
guide me through my fitness journey.
8. Yes, I just became too busy to use the fitness app.
9. Provide reminders throughout the day (notification) if set goals have not been achieved
that way i’d be able to update the app.
10. Yes, I get up to 8 hours of sleep a day and usually knock off around 10 or 11pm.

Appendix 8 - Interview 4 (conducted by Kenny)
1. Female
2. On average 6 times a week, my workouts are lightweight and less intensive and vary
weekly. I stick to rehabilitation exercises for hip bursitis like; glute bridges, clamshells,
fire hydrants, chair squats etc… They are all unweighted as I cannot lift heavy.
3. My main fitness objectives are to improve my overall well being, mental and physical.
4. Unfortunately I have had on-going injuries, hip issues called bursitis. Due to this injury I
stick to low intensity, non-weighted exercises as they are the safest for me.
5. No, I'm more focused on exercise than diet at the moment as I think my diet is healthy
enough.
6. No.
7. Should allow users to customise workout plans and be easy to use.
8. Yes, as I saw no benefit in using it.
9. More customisability, provide goals on improving mental and physical health rather than
physical goals (weight, calories)
10. It changes everyday, I don’t really have a specific schedule. I sleep when I'm sleepy for
however long I need to.

Appendix 9 - Interview 5 (conducted by Kenny)
1. Male
2. Up-to three times a week, my workouts consist mainly of strength-training exercises and
cardio.
3. My main fitness objectives are to lead a more active lifestyle overall. After years of
sedentary living, I realised how much it affected my health and mood. My inspiration
comes mainly from wanting to make the most out of life, enjoying outdoor activities, and
not being held back by my fitness level. It's about overall well-being for me as well as
enjoying life.
4. So far no.
5. No, I tend to eat healthy most days and have never felt the need to seek dietary
guidance. I am not saying I never will, it’s just at this moment in life I am content without
it.
6. Yes, when I begin to take exercising more seriously I would count my calories to make
sure I'm eating within maintenance calories so that I can build muscle.
7. Ease of use isn't overall difficult to use.The fitness app should give a detailed tracking of
workouts, nutrition, and progress. I think this is essential as I want to be able to view my
performance and whether or not it has improved over time, whether it's running faster,
lifting heavier, or achieving a healthier diet. Analytics that give insights into my habits and
progress would motivate me by showing me visual results of my efforts.
8. Yes, it wasn't well built or helpful at all and I struggled to store information on the
exercises I had done.
9. Well built, gives good information and allows input on exercise done, allows input for
exercise such as swimming, running (track miles done when exercise)
10. Yes, as long as it gives me accurate information. I sleep at random times so I can't really
say the exact times.
 
Appendix 10 - Interview 1 (conducted by Khadija)
1. Male.
2. I work out 3-5 times a week. I would like to workout more but I work a full time job and
even 3-5 times a week is hard to do alongside a 9 to 5. I workout mainly to keep healthy
and reduce my risk of chronic diseases such as heart disease and diabetes as it runs in
my family. My workout routine usually includes 2 arm and back days, 2 leg days and 1
cardio and abs day.
3. Yes, my main aim is to enhance my cardiovascular health, and boost my immune system
function. Last year, I saw my father struggle with heart disease, and that was a wake-up
call for me. I'm inspired by the desire to stay healthy and active for my family. I want to
be able to play with my kids without getting winded and be around them as long as
possible.
4. I have been skinny most of my life, however since last year I have gained weight due to
changes in my job. I used to work a very labour intensive job so I was able to keep fit
with minimal exercise but ever since I started my office job last year I have put on
significant amounts of weight. I also have an increased appetite and feel like I eat out of
boredom more than hunger. One of the biggest challenges I've faced is finding time to
exercise with a busy schedule. Between work and family commitments, its hard. I
addressed this by scheduling my workouts as I would any important appointment,
waking up an hour earlier in the morning to fit in exercise. It's tough, but treating it as a
non-negotiable part of my day has really helped.
5. Yes, I would like that. My body best suits a high protein low carb diet.
6. No, I would hate to have to count the calories I'm consuming, as I can't be bothered I
would much rather just eat intuitively.
7. Features that allow for seamless tracking of physical activities, heart rate, sleep patterns,
and more should be integrated in a fitness tracking app. This connectivity will enhance
my fitness experience by providing accurate, real-time data that will help me make
informed decisions about my health and fitness routine.
8. Yes, because it didn’t have all the features I would want in a fitness tracking app like;
there were no workout plans, nutrition guides/diet plans based on my specific needs, so I
didn’t see the point in using a fitness app.
9. A good fitness app would be one that successfully tracks progression and gives
recommendations based on the users needs and requirements.
10. Yes, but only if it gives me advice based on my sleeping patterns and doesn’t take up too
much of my time to record my info. My sleep schedule varies every day but I usually get
up to 8 hours of sleep on my days off and slightly less on workdays (between 4-6 hours).
I tend to sleep between 11pm-2am on workdays and on the weekends I sleep a little
later.

Appendix 11 - Interview 2 (conducted by Khadija)
1. Female
2. I recently started working out, I go around 4 to 5 times a week as I have placement 3
times a week and I don't like working out on work days as my placement is stressful
enough.
3. Absolutely, I have set a goal to lose 20 pounds by the end of the year. My motivation
comes from wanting to feel more confident in my own skin and improve my overall
health. I have struggled with my weight for years, and I'm finally ready to make a lasting
change. Seeing progress, even if it's slow, keeps me motivated to keep working hard. My
main aim is to lose weight, build muscle and grow my glutes.
4. I find it hard losing weight because I love food and have had a binge-eating disorder in
the past so I have pretty much struggled with eating healthy all my life. My fitness
journey is not just about exercising; it is also about overcoming poor eating habits. My
main challenge is having to change years of unhealthy diet patterns. I started small,
making one change at a time, like drinking more water and adding more vegetables to
my meals. Consulting a nutritionist was a game-changer for me. It's an ongoing process,
but I'm making progress.
5. Yes! I want to be able to track my progress and be given recommendations based on it.
A high protein, low fat, low calorie diet best suits me as my aim is to lose weight and
build muscle so a diet like that would be most beneficial for me to achieve my objective.
6. Yes, I would use a fitness tracking app to track my calories because my fitness journey
wasn't just about exercising; it was also about overcoming poor eating habits. The
challenge was changing years of unhealthy diet patterns. I started small, making one
change at a time, like drinking more water and adding more vegetables to my meals as
well as taking essential vitamins. Consulting a nutritionist was a game-changer for me.
It's an ongoing process, but I'm making progress and I couldn’t be happier.
7. A BMI and calorie intake calculator. One that works out how much you would need to eat
in a deficit, surplus or maintenance based on your current weight and measurements.
8. No, I still use MyFitnessPal actively as it has helped me keep track of my weight loss
journey as well as gives me workout and meal recommendations.
9. I would use a fitness app more consistently if it had all the features I want in a fitness
tracking app and is free and has no ads.
10. Yes but only if it’s accurate. I would like to track my sleeping habits and be given advice
on what I can do to improve my sleeping habits. I usually get around 7 - 8 hours of sleep
a day and sleep around 11-1am everyday.

Appendix 12 - Interview 1 (conducted by Max)
1. Female
2. Approximately 3 times a week because of work but a lot of yoga and dancing.
3. The goal is to be able to do all flexible yoga poses.
4. Difficulties are ADHD. Can be overly obsessed with exercising and then get bored at it.
Periods are also a hindrance when trying to stick to a routine and the same workout.
a. Never used a fitness app so can't say. I will probably never use one. Therapy for
mental well-being or assistance with respect to posture and live tracking of body
movements and stretching exercises. How to breathe in and out properly, hand
and shoulder positions.
5. Too scattered to follow dietary plans made by fitness apps. I won't be able to follow the
plans unless there is some sort of invigilator looking over to see that I follow up on the
plans.
a. I like Asian food so I would like recipes on that probably. If the app suggested
what food I could make based on the ingredients I have, that would be great too.
Something fast and quick.
6. I would use it to track my daily calories to see when I’m going overboard or where I lack
nutrition, fibre, and minerals. I’d also like to see how many calories I’m burning
throughout the day.
7. Based on a woman’s menstrual cycle, women have different energy levels. I’d like the
app to keep this in mind and sort of calculate which phase of the cycle (luteal, follicle)
you most probably are in and suggest exercising activities and food based on that
energy level. That would be so amazing. In certain phases, there are low levels of
certain minerals and nutrients. Suggesting foods to compensate for these would be nice.
8. Quit a fitness tracking app before because of ADHD. I hyper-fixate on doing the
exercises or get bored or lose interest. It sometimes could feel like a chore. If rewards,
perhaps were to be awarded, could get me back to using a fitness tracking app.
9. Rewards would be the only thing to get me back along with all the features I mentioned
before like tracking menstrual cycles, tracking posture, and exercises.
10. I don’t want to track the quality of my sleep because I don’t trust it or the accuracy. Plus I
don’t want any app to be listening to me while I sleep. If the app tells me the quality of
my sleep is not good, I’d stress about getting that amount of sleep so much that it would
be much worse than it was. I sleep around 10:30 p.m and I require around 8 or more
hours of sleep so that I wake up and don’t feel tired. I usually get around 7 to 7.5 hours
of sleep every day. Plus, women require more sleep than men.

Appendix 13 - Interview 2 (conducted by Max)
1. Female
2. I exercise weekly. Sometimes twice a week
3. I do have fitness goals.
a. I want to have a very good circadian rhythm. When I’m exercising, the way I
sleep, the way I don’t feel fresh throughout the whole day. It really makes a big
difference. So, that’s my goal. I want to exercise regularly so that it keeps my
metabolism good and I don’t feel sleepy during class.
4. Yes. I have asthma. Sometimes the atmosphere is really polluted where I live so at times
when I lie on the bed, I start wheezing. On those days, I have to be careful while
choosing an exercise, so that I don’t stress out my respiratory system.
a. I’d like suggestions. For example, a list of what I should be doing will help me but
not necessarily a routine because I’d struggle with a routine. Also, the option
where I can decide how often I can and will exercise.
5. No. I don’t really find it useful.
a. I prefer a balanced diet with a lot of fruits and vegetables.
6. I would not use a fitness tracking app to track my calories since it’s too stressful.
7. I would like a fitness tracking app to track calories taken In v/s calories burnt. I’d also like
the app to track distance walked like the Strava app which has a nice map and interface.
I would also like to know the value of the nutritional content in my food and not just the
calorie content.
8. I haven’t quit
9. If I can’t do some exercise by myself, then I would use a fitness tracking app. I also find it
very scary. I don’t want an eating disorder.
10. Yes. I sleep around 11 pm to 12 am and wake up between 7 am to 8 am. I require
around 8 hours of sleep every day to feel fresh for the next day.

Appendix 14 - Interview 3 (conducted by Max)
1. Female
2. I rarely exercise
3. I plan on losing weight and getting in some cardio since my stamina is very low and I’m
not moving about much since I work on a laptop.
4. I don’t have any difficulties or disabilities as such.
5. Yes. I personally don’t care about my calories and keeping myself thin. I just want to feel
healthy, not focusing on looking good. Everything is far too generic, so I’d want a
personalised diet plan.
a. I’ve never had or followed a diet plan, don’t think I would want to either.
6. I would not use a fitness tracking app at the moment. I don’t find the need for one. I’d
probably use one in my late 30s.
7. Primarily, I expect a fitness tracking app to monitor how much I move. Secondarily, how
many calories I have burnt. Lastly, areas in which I am lacking. For example a
personalised plan tracking my stamina, movements, and food.
8. Yes I have quit using a fitness tracking app before. I found it to be inaccurate, and
generic, especially in terms of step count.
9. Simplicity would be one of the main things that would make me use a fitness tracking
app more often. A lot of apps are getting far too complicated with their interface. For
example, Instagram has just 4 basic buttons to navigate which is so much better.
10. Tracking the quality of my sleep would help me a lot. I would also like the app to track
when I sleep and sleep talk. I would also like it to detect any noise in general. I sleep
around 2 am and I require around 8.5 hours of sleep every day. Anything less than 8
hours is a problem.

Appendix 15 - Interview 4 (conducted by Max)
1. Male
2. I exercise sometimes, depending on my mood.
3. I want to have a nice jawline. I want to be fit enough to be running every day once my
knee is okay. I also want to exercise enough to not feel so lethargic and go through the
entire day.
4. My knee and ankle are injured so I can’t move about much until I recover.
a. I already use a fitness app for home workouts at the moment. Perhaps, providing
exercises and tracking your recovery and rehabilitation progress in terms of reps
would be ideal for me.
5. Personally, I don’t like to go so minutely into eating plans but I would like to track my
macronutrients regularly. I would like to cut out a lot of carbs too but depending on where
I am based on my work, things change and it's hard to follow a routine.
a. A diet plan considering all aspects of nutrients and protein for a daily diet would
work for me.
6. I find it cumbersome to use an app to track calories. So, I’d rather not use it for now.
7. I’d expect some sort of reward system, a progress system where you track days you
exercised, calories burnt through the exercises, and a metric to show how you’re
progressing. Tracking reps and the time taken to do them is also what I’d expect. A
reward system where there was a leaderboard where you could challenge your friends
and get simple rewards like badges or money or vouchers. It could be distance covered
weekly and monthly just to promote fitness.
8. I haven’t really quit a fitness app as such. It depends on my work schedule
9. A reward system in the app like how Duolingo does it and a good UI/UX design with an
interactive design could be implemented. Even displaying a fun fact or choosing the right
colours for example would make the app more interesting and usable. Features where
depending on your progress, you unlock new exercises or diet plans. Focusing on
mental well-being is another important factor to consider. Besides just workout exercises,
the app could also focus on yoga and breathing, besides therapy and positive quotes.
10. I’m not sure about the accuracy of a fitness tracking app to track sleep accurately.
Besides, I would not want to wear a watch while I sleep which could possibly provide
better results. Also, inputting the hours of sleep is a chore on a phone like a proper
report. I sleep around 11 pm and I usually require around 7-8 hours of sleep to function
efficiently at work.

Appendix 16 - Interview 1 (conducted by Ayesha)
1. I am a female.
2. My exercise routine includes a mix of cardio and strength training. I exercise five times a
week to stay active and maintain a healthy lifestyle.
3. My fitness objectives are to improve my overall strength and endurance. I'm inspired by
the feeling of accomplishment and the positive impact it has on my overall well-being.
4. I have faced challenges such as time constraints and occasional lack of motivation. To
address them, I prioritise my workouts and find ways to make them enjoyable, like
listening to music or working out with a friend. I think that really helps actually.
a. I would say it would be really useful if the app can provide workout reminders, offer a
variety of workout options, and send motivational messages to keep me on track.
Especially reminders, because at times I can be forgetful or lose track if there’s a lot
to it.
5. Yes, I am interested in receiving dietary guidance through a fitness app. It would be
helpful to have nutrition tips and meal planning suggestions tailored to my fitness goals.
a. I find a balanced diet plan with a focus on whole foods and portion control to be
effective for me. It helps me fuel my workouts and maintain overall health.
6. Yes, I would use a fitness tracking app to track my daily calories. It would give me a
better understanding of my nutritional intake and help me make informed choices.
7. Essential features in a fitness tracking app include accurate calorie tracking, workout
logging, progress tracking, and the ability to set goals. These features would enhance
my fitness experience by providing a comprehensive overview of my activities and
progress.
8. Yes. There was a fitness tracker I did stop using once and changed to another.
a. I stopped using that one because the notifications were too frequent which was
irritating. It didn’t let me customise the notification frequency.
9. Incentives like virtual rewards, challenges, or even a community of like-minded
individuals would motivate me to use a fitness tracking app more consistently. In fact, for
me personally the social community aspect would be most helpful as it gives a sense of
competition, so more motivation.
10. Yes, I would use a fitness tracking app to track the quality of my sleep. It would help me
identify patterns and make adjustments to improve my sleep habits. I aim for a
consistent sleep schedule of 7-8 hours per night. Getting enough sleep is really
important to me since it also allows me to have energy to increase my fitness the next
day in the first place.

Appendix 17 - Interview 1 (conducted by Mairaj)
1. Male
2. I hardly exercise, whenever I see a person with a good and fit body it pushes me to lean
towards exercise more to get a perfect toned body.
3. To look good and wear anything without any embarrassment and to feel healthy. I often
get motivated when I look at celebrities with perfect bodies.
4. Only barrier or challenge I can say is that I am not task-oriented and I tend to
procrastinate. Especially workout. However, I walk a lot.
5. I need an app that gives me constant motivation and helps me during the routine with
food calorie intake and different exercise methods from the beginner class.
5. Yes, of course as long as it does not affect my health.
5. I have never had a diet plan, but love to get one where I can mostly eat whatever I want
and it would be healthy.
6. Yes, I would use the fitness tracking app, so that I can understand what food is bad or
good for my health.
7. It should remind me of regular exercise and determine calorie intake. Also, it must teach
me to burn calories.
8. No, I have never used a fitness app before. As I am not tech savvy or a fitness
enthusiast, I never got into the technology of fitness applications.
9. If I complete my goals regularly it can provide me with coupons for a bargain, Also; it can
provide discounts for sports apparel, gym equipment, etc. for regular customers.
10. My current sleep schedule is 4-6 hours of sleep at night. However, I need to maintain 8
hours of sleep.

Appendix 18 - Interview 2 (conducted by Mairaj)
1. Male
2. I do not work out as my job as a sales manager in Vero Moda is always a standing task.
Continuous standing, without any breaks, except for lunch break. As I reach home, I get
exhausted, after which I cannot go out for a workout. An early morning workout is also not
possible as my shift ends by midnight and I have to get back to work the next day by 10 am.
3. My daily routine involves going to the store as early as possible, which is highly unlikely
because I tend to leave the store by midnight daily and rush back to the office the next morning
at 10 am. I do not get enough time to allocate it to exercise.
4. I want to gain muscles; however, I am unable to do so. I have tried various protein
supplements but all in vain. To stand the entire day and gain muscles is very difficult.
5. Yes! I want to be able to track my progress and be given recommendations based on it.
A high protein, low fat, low-calorie diet best suits me as I aim to lose weight and build muscle so
a diet like that would be most beneficial for me to achieve my objective. The supplements that I
took till now did not work. Probably the application can provide me with better dietary options.
6. Yes, of course, I will use a fitness application to track my calorie intake. The food I eat directly
affects my body, the protein supplement did not work probably because of poor diet as well. This
might help me overcome the barrier that I had previously going unknown about my calorie
intake.
7. Features like a step calculator, sleep tracker, etc are the most essential ones for me.
8. No, I have never used any fitness application, as I cannot allocate enough time to
exercise due to my busy schedule. I keep walking or standing the entire day, which keeps me fit,
but I am unable to gain muscle.
9. The application must provide access to all its features without any charges, if the user
reaches a milestone, he/she can share it on social media. For regular or experienced users
Various discount coupons can be generated.
10. Yes, I need that as I would like to track my sleeping habits and be given advice on what I
can do to improve my sleeping habits. I usually get around 5-6 hours of sleep a day and sleep
around 1-2 am every day.

Appendix 19 - Interview 1 (conducted by Hassan)
1. I am a male
2. I exercise 7 days a week. I go to the gym most days, but sometimes I will play sports
such as squash and football. This may be alongside my gym workouts or sometimes I will not go
gym on the days I play these sports.
3. My main objective is to gain strength so I can lift heavier weights.
4. No disabilities but my main challenge has been staying consistent with the gym.
1. To help me remain consistent, a fitness app that could send me reminders to go
to the gym so that I can be motivated on days when I feel more lazy
5. Yes, it would be beneficial if it could suggest foods that fit my diet
1. I aim to have a high protein, high carb diet as this is ideal for me to build muscle
as well as have energy to burn at the gym.
6. Yes, I would. This would be very convenient for me and it would help me with making
sure I don’t overeat throughout the day.
7. Predetermined workout plans, exercise tutorials and recommended sets/reps
8. No, I have never used a fitness tracker before.
9. If the app displayed progression data like graphs, it would incentivise me to work harder
at the gym so that I can continue improving.
10. Yes, I believe it would be helpful because sleep plays a big role in recovery, and muscle
recovery is essential for strength training.
11. I sleep at 12 o’clock most days, and on average I sleep for 9 hours a day, which
includes sleeping at night as well as naps during the day.

Appendix 20 - Interview 2 (conducted by Hassan)
1. I am a male
2. I go to the gym 7 days a week for weight training.
3. My main objective is to lose weight and gain muscle because I want to look good.
4. Yes, one barrier that I have is knee pain, because my knees have been injured for some
time now.
a. Because using the stairs hurts my knees, I want the app to have a filter which
would allow me to be able to locate a gym with an elevator
5. Yes, it would be beneficial if it could suggest foods that fit my diet
b. I aim to have a high protein, low carb diet as this is ideal for me to build muscle
as well as lose fat at the gym.
6. Yes, I would. This would help me eat foods that fit my dietary requirements and make
sure I stay in a calorie deficit.
7. I think features such as theme customisation, being able to see progress across different
units of time, being able to set starting weight for progress, and the ability to upload photos to
see progress over time would enhance my fitness experience as well as my experience while
using the app.
8. Yes
a. The apps I have used have constant ads which are very annoying so I uninstalled
the apps
9. Free features, no ads, nice modern UI, ability to use different languages
10. No, I already know how much I sleep.
a. I usually sleep at different times, depending on what I’ve done that day and what
I’m doing the following day. I require 6-7 hours of sleep.
